---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Group Work Reflections"
---

### Group Work Reflections

My project partners, Vasily and Polina recently formed a group to decide on an open source project to contribute to for the remaining of the semester. We have yet to officially decide on a project, but we have greatly narrowed down the current selection of projects. Let's get into it!

<!--more-->

### Obstacles Surrounding Choosing a Project

Currently, we face no major issues other than ironing out the finer details so that we can be confident in our choice. One of our larger concerns is how tedious or complicated setting up the development and deployment environments are. For one of the projects in consideration, we have found that there is a lot of dependencies that we have little experience with that we need to install to properly contribute to the project. We are also unsure of its licensing because depending where you look in the repository, a different license is listed. That being said, we are still considering working on it. To resolve these issues, we are in communication with our professor about the licensing to establish that it is a properly open source project. For the deployment issue, we as a group are collectively setting up the development and trying out the deployment environments so that we can finalize our project choice. 

### How Did We Decide On a Project?

My group has yet to finalize a project. This is because the three of us are each experiencing blockers that are preventing us from dedicating too much time outside of class for now; We are all in the midst of midterms. With that in mind, we have set a deadline for ourselves to choose a project, which is Wednesday, March 10. The two projects remaining for consideration are MusicBlocks by SugarLabs, and Mattermost (a Slack alternative). We lean most towards Mattermost, but the issues mentioned above are found with Mattermost. On the positive end of the spectrum, Mattermost has a great range of issues that are suitable for beginner contributors, the community is very active, and the project is not hinged on an individual. It is also mainly in our collectively preferred language of JavaScript, but has a secondary language of Go, which is great for Polina. We hope that this will be the project we commit to. 

