---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Browser Extension Presentations + Git"
---

## Git Exercises

This week's sessions of OSSD found us familiarizing ourselves with using git and GitHub. I have  used GitHub and git to an extent prior to taking this class, but learning more git commands feels like an invaluable resource for my future growth as a Software Engineer-adjacent role. 

<!--more-->

The main command I learned in class this week was the `git reset HEAD ....` command. Through this, I can remove a designated staged file from the staging area. This will be extremely helpful in the future when I accidentally stage files that I did not mean to (I have a tendency to use `git add .` when I am feeling lazy). As I work on increasingly larger in scale projects, I will stop using `git add .`, but until then my ways will remain unchanged! 

## Browser Extension Presentations

I was admittedly quite impressed with the presentations I watched in class. Some groups truly went above and beyond in creating their own browser extension. Beyond the style of presentation (such as a set of Google Slides), even the visual aspect of the browser extensions was really well done. One group did an extension modeled after the *Pomodoro Method*, calling it "Tomato Clock", which I found to be a clever way of getting around calling it the exact same name. The visual aspect of this method was really nice and the execution was simple in a good way! 

## Reflection on My Own Presentation

### Personal Reflection

Truth be told, I was completely aware that for my portion of my group's presentation, I went through the technical documents very quickly. This was because of a mix of my own anxiety surrounding presentations and the fact that as the last group, we would be reciting a lot of the information. That being said, I can see how this harmed the quality of my group's presentation. 

### Group Reflection

For my group as a whole, I would say that we underperformed compared to the rest of the class. Concerning our thought process, we originally wanted to go with an extension that would allow a user to open a repository or profile on GitHub and retrieve the owner's email address for contact purposes. We eventually decided to not move forward with this extension because we felt that as a first project we should not bite off more than we are ready to chew. In hindsight, this does feel like the incorrect choice to have made, but this can now only be viewed as a lesson to ourselves for future projects. Overall, I have great hopes for the direction the class is going in and my own growth as a student in OSSD. 