---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Browser Extension Project"
---

## Summary 

This week, I did a small collaborative project with a couple of peers that was essentially a chrome extension to show common GitHub commands upon being clicked. It is an extremely straightforward project that can be very helpful to people that are only recently becoming acquianted with GitHub since commands can be hard to remember at the start. 

<!--more-->

## Team Members
- Jahleel Townsend (Myself)
- Fox Zhang
- Daniel Brito

## Work Progress 

### Delegation of Work

As far as the progression of the project, the amount of time spent on creating it was quite little compared to other assignments and personal projects I have worked on. I myself mostly focused on the technical work, that being the ***LICENSE***, ***CONTRIBUTING.md*** and ***Code of Conduct*** files. Daniel took the helm with the actual coding in JavaScript and HTML. Finally, Fox handled the manifest file as well as the ***README.md***. 

### Challenges 

Originally, the idea for our browser extension was one that would allow the user to view a repository or profile page on GitHub and the extension would present the user with the repo or profile owner's email. We decided that for the sake of getting the job done, we should start out smaller since scraping the page is more complicated than presenting static info. 

### Self-Reflection 

Through Professor K's lessons, I realized how lucky I am to have taken Professor Bloomberg's *Intro to Computer Science* class prior to taking the current slew of classes. His classes heavily stress the usage of git and GitHub and that has proved to be extremely useful. I had assumed every intro class would have students become acclimated to using git and GitHub. I am currently taking another of Bloomberg's classes, so this puts him in a brighter light during his lessons. 




