---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: Start of OSSD"
---
This post serves as the beginning to my journey through Open Source Software Development with Professor K in the Spring 2025 semester of my studies at New York University. Conceptually, this class is one of the more intriguing high level electives and I'm really excited to take it mainly to bolster my own resume; being able to say I took part in contributing to an open source  project would be helpful to show what I am capable of to potential employers. 

Speaking more directly about open source software, I find the concept of being able to freely look through the source code very attractive for several reasons. Firstly, there is a sense of security garnered by being able to read through all of the source code. This provides an opportunity to anyone wanting to access it to look for any potential concerns such as faulty code, malicious code, or simply incomplete code. Secondly, by using open source code found on the internet, I can easily form baseplates for projects of my own interests, eliminating the need to write the boilerplate code myself. Thirdly, it allows for what I would call an open-invite method of collaborative programming that would be harder to accomplish otherwise, potentially creating large communities that contribute to a project. I also look forward to refining, correcting, and learning more about open source as a whole in the duration of this course. 

Regarding open source works I have used myself, there are Brave (a browser), Git, VS Code, and Wine/Whisky:
-  Brave I actually only used for a short period of time. If I remember correctly, I deleted it from my mobile phone because it was either taking up too much space or was running too slow for my liking. That being said, Brave is one of the first open source works that I was introduced to as being open source, opening my eyes to the general concept. 
- Git does not really need an introduction since it is used by just large swaths of people in or adjacent to the field of Computer Science. For anyone who is unaware still, it is a version control system that is extremely useful for software development. There are a lot of capabilities to Git, all of which I am nowhere near done uncovering, but the more I find out, the more impressed I become. 
- I included VS Code in this list because this is admittedly my source code editor of choice. The UI feels really intuitive, especially compared to other editors that I have used. There is great opportunity for customization in terms of themes, syntax highlighting, what tools you make use of, etc. Typically I will not say never about choices made in the future, but I cannot easily see myself  moving from VS Code to another source code editor. 
- Wine and Whisky are two different open source projects, but they have the same goal, which is to emulate a windows environment on the Mac series of laptop and desktop computers so that users can play games made for the windows format! The main difference between the two is that Wine is for intel-chipped Macs, whereas Whisky is for the Apple M-series of chips. Having an M1 chip in my laptop, I do currently have Whisky downloaded, though I do not use it super often. It is possible that in the future, I will try my hand at contributing to Whisky. 
