---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Contributions and Open Source as a Path"
---

<!---- make your blog post: discuss progress you've made on the group project and what you hope to accomplish in the remaining few weekscomment on the presentation you saw this week -->

### Overview

This week is the first week back from spring break! I personally had a great vacation away from school; It was a very much needed getaway. I went to Amsterdam and just lived a short, but relaxing life in a much calmer and slower city. Enough of that though, classes are back in full swing. In OSSD on Monday (Mar 31) we had a group work session which included going around the class and discussing progress made on our respective projects. On Wednesday (Apr 2), there was a guest speaker who talked to us about his experience and trajectory in open source as a specialization. Let's jump into it!

<!--more-->

### Group Work Reflections

Now we are a few weeks into our great big half-semester group projects. My group is working on Mattermost, a slack-alternative professional communication app. As far as progress is concerned, my groupmates and I each have an issue that has been officially assigned to us, so we are all working on our individual minor issues as of right now. I know that we plan to get those minor issues wrapped up quickly so that we can maybe do a couple more and then focus on a large contribution. The larger contribution could be something like a feature, but we are not too sure on the specifics yet. 

### Presentation Takeaways

The presentation this week was given by Shivam Balikondwar, A.K.A the class T.A. that apparently nobody had ever gone to see before. On a more serious note, he gave a pretty good presentation even though I was yawning (but that has nothing to do with the presenter, I just notoriously cannot sit and listen to long talks regardless of how interesting I find it). While Nick Vidal made it clear that a career in open source was very plausible, Shivam talked about it in a way that gave me a clearer vision of how that could happen. One of his things was that he worked long and hard to contribute to Mozilla Firefox and that helped him with getting employed by them. I hope to have a similar experience in the future since I am having a hard time finding employment at the moment. Open source seems like something I will put more of my energy into outside of class because of Shivam's presentation. 