---
layout: post
title: "Week 8: Talks of Open Source"
---

### Open Source Discussions

This week in OSSD the main topic (unsurprisingly) was open source. The notable difference? The discussion was headed by professionals who currently specialize in open source works. Originally there were two speakers, but one had a completely understandable change in schedule. The talk that was had with Nick Vidal from OSI was pretty fruitful as a standalone presentation. I found that it was insightful about life in open source as a specialization.

<!--more-->

### Presentation Takeaways

The larger takeaway I had from Nick's presentation was how the definition of Open Source is frequently being challenged. Particularly how Meta is trying to change the definition to benefit themselves with their new AI, Llama. Meta's perspective is that they find the current definition of open source to be too restricted/limited. Personally, I do not believe that the definition of open source should change, but rather that a secondary term should be created to properly clarify Meta's AI.

### View of Open Source in the Financial Sector 

To be frank, I do not have many thoughts regarding open source in relation to the financial industry. It makes sense that such a term would span industries; It is widely applicable in my opinion. 

### Open Source and AI

My views regarding open source AI have not shifted at all. While I understand that an ever-evolving AI is pretty complex and can be hard to properly encompass, I do not believe that it so desperately needs the label of open source as badly as Meta is pushing for it. Since AI's are experiencing a peak in buzz right now, I think a separate term should be created for them. 