---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Contributions to Works"
---

## Introduction

My contributions until now in the course of OSSD have been done entirely on Wikipedia. Which is to say that I have only done a SINGLE contribution. It is not that the contributions are not going well, I just have been doing a poor job of keeping them within the scope of my field of awareness. Let's get into it!

<!--more-->

### What? How? What (again)??

The first and only contribution that I have done went pretty well. It was a nice introduction to performing various random contributions and I feel that it laid decent groundwork for future contributions. The only type of contribution that I have made so far is a Wikipedia edit, which was adding information to a pre-existing page. It was a very lackluster contribution, merely a single sentence being added, but it was my first so I believe that to be okay. It is the lack of future contributions that are the problem. The current biggest challenge with making contributions is both finding places I see an opportunity to contribute and ensuring that contributions remain in my field of awareness. 

### Concerning Future Contributions

My current goal is to begin contributing a couple times a week so that I can build a steady record of contributions and get into the habit of doing them. As a first step in said goal, I plan to make a minor contribution today (March 3, 2025). The proof will be visible on my contributions page by the end of the day! In consideration of what I have contributed to and what has taken place in class, I think my contribution today will be a Wikipedia edit, but by the end of the week I would like to begin contributing my programming skills to open source works. This may appear in the format of contributing to other students' repositories; I have yet to figure out the minutiae behind it. 

