---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Cathedral and the Bazaar, My Open Source Projects Not Getting Far"
---

### Overview

Week 10 saw us (the class) learn about the two main styles of development, the first being cathedral style and the second being bazaar style. We also talked about the Coffeehouse idea that Clause Warren spoke about. Let's get started.

<!--more-->

### *The Cathedral and the Bazaar* Lesson Reflections

#### "The Imporance of Having Users"

This section of the essay speaks on how valuable it can be to treat the users of your product as developers, even more so in an open-source space. It allows for extremely fast and highly scalable improvement because you have opened your product to be reviewed by people from a myriad of walks of life. 

This is directly applicable to any open source project I would like to imagine, but even more so for the project I am contributing to, Mattermost. It is a slack-style application, so its main function is a professional communication app. One of the cool things about contributing to Mattermost is whether you are a programmer or a non-technical user, it's encouraged for everyone to use the product and let the core maintainers know if there are any bugs or issues to be reported and fixed. So like the essay states, there is great value to be found in treating your users as developers. 

#### "How Many Eyeballs Tame Complexity"

This lesson is pretty directly connected to the previously discussed concept of treating users as developers, though this is taking a step back to widen the scope. This is about open-source development as a whole and how by participating in open-source development with your product, you open the doors to meaningful contributions from people with varying types and levels of skill. 

In Mattermost this is easily visible in the number of ways people can contribute. There are translator openings for a large number of languages, bug reporters, documentation/technical writing aides, code developers, code triages, blog writing, and maybe a couple more types I did not remember. There really is a very wide range of people that can help with the development and some people such as myself have the opportunity to contribute in several ways, which is really enjoyable!

### Coffeehouse Idea from Clause Warren

#### The Concept and its Application 

To briefly state it, the coffeehouse idea is the concept of open-source development being like a cofeehouse because a wide variety of people come in to exchange ideas and collaborate. I think its an apt analogy and see the merit of deeming it as such. Whether you are in your home city, where you moved for work, or are traveling on vacation/business, a coffee shop is a (at least largely) universally available establishment where you can interact with many kinds of people. Open source development is the same, though on a grander scale when you consider that people can connect to contribute from anywhere in the world where there is a good enough unfettered wifi signal.

### Chosen Company with an OSPO

The company I looked at with a well-established OSPO is Microsoft. The role OSPO plays at Microsoft is both to nurture that rapid, scalable development that was mentioned earlier, and to sometimes offer employment to dedicated and truly helpful contributers. Aside from that, they help with managing intellectual property and ensure that their software is adhering to whatever license's standards. They also take on the task of tracking contributions made to Microsoft's software! There are more responsibilities or aides provided to Microsoft from their OSPO, but those are just what I chose to name. They seem to play a fairly large role. 


<!--
reflect on the Coffeehouse idea that Clause Warren was talking about in your own words, talk about the role OSPO play in the companies that you found
-->