---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Open Source Project Evals"
---

# Open Source Project Evaluations

## Summary 

This week in OSSD, we were split into groups to perform evaluations of various open source projects. Part of the objective with evaluating these projects is to garner the ability to decide whether a particular project would be a good idea to contribute to at the current point of our journey as computer scientists / software engineers. I would say that this objective has been met quite easily through completing the evaluations. 

<!--more-->

## Table of Contents
- [Open Source Project Evaluations](#open-source-project-evaluations)
  - [Summary](#summary)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Thoughts on Different Projects](#thoughts-on-different-projects)
  - [Hope for Future Open Source Work](#hope-for-future-open-source-work)
  - [Suspected Challenges and Amelioration](#suspected-challenges-and-amelioration)

## Thoughts on Different Projects

- ***Whisky/Whiskey*** (Wrapper for ***Wine***): Whisky gets its name from the fact that actual whisky is an alcohol of a higher ABV than wine, the name of the original project that Whisky wraps. The goal of it is to allow MacOS users to play games that were created for Windows systems. While this project is very interesting to me, in terms of compatibility for my current stage as a developer, it does not fare well. It is mostly maintained by a single individual, which makes sense considering the scope of the project. It could be argued that the scope is quite large to make it so that MacOS users can play Windows games, but the market for that is not very large, which reduces the scope.  
- ***VSCode:*** VSCode is the source code editor of choice while I do any sort of programming. I have tried a couple other editors like Eclipse and Sublime, but the UI of VSCode is several echelons above the other two. Looking through the evaluation performed by another group, it seems to be a project with strong community and contributions from a wide array of developers, with over 2000 people having contributed to the project as a whole. The majority of the project is not shouldered by an individual like with Whisky, which gives more security in trying to make contributions. This is a project worth considering for future open source contributions.
- ***pygame:*** Pygame is a library in python that is specialized in easing the creation of multimedia applications; games are one of the more popular uses of this library. As far as shouldering of the project goes, there is one contributor who has made significantly more contributions than the rest of the contributers, but it is worth noting that the contributions of the next several contributers with the highest number of commits are significant. Aside from that, pygame has a small but robust outline for contributing to the project that makes me feel like I could contribute to this in the future. 

## Hope for Future Open Source Work 

I think that what I am most excited about for working on an open source project in the near future is being able to tangibly make a difference in a project of interest. I enjoy the thought of being able to show a feature of a project, section of a document, or something else to a friend and saying, "See this project? Cool isn't it? I did this part right here!" If whisky was not held up by a single person, I would immediately choose that since the project has what I would consider to be an admirable goal. 

## Suspected Challenges and Amelioration

At the moment, I believe the biggest challenge in open source work for me will be to find a reasonable project to contribute to. I think that once I choose a fitting project and read through the documentation, I will be able to make contributions fairly frequently depending on the size of the contribution. To overcome this challenge, I will likely make use of a mix of ChatGPT, Google searches, and general brainstorming to see what open source projects I am aware of and can contribute to. 