---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Codes of Conduct"
---

Go: 
By having a code of conduct, expectations are made clear to all contributing to the project without the need for individual insemination of the project's code of conduct. It also allows a contributor to easily revisit the page should they be interested in doing so. Other projects could benefit from having such a document because while it feels like an obvious way for human beings to behave, the document provides a baseplate to hold accountability with. One difference between the Go project's document and the Contributor Covenant's document are that the Go document's conflict resolution goes into greater specificity than the Contributor Covenant's Enforcement section of the document. A second difference would be that the Go project's code of conduct contains a summary at the end whereas the Contributor Covenant's document does not. 

<!--more-->

[Eclipse Code of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php):
There is a great difference between the structure and content of the Eclipse project's code of conduct compared to Go project's, possibly because of the scope of the respective projects. As a fairly popular editor, Eclipse more than likely eclipses the number of users that the Go project has. Not to mention that Eclipse allows usage to more languages than just Go; the scope between the two is simply different. 

Sugar: 
The code of conduct for Sugar is essentially the same as the Go project's document, but with extra content added regarding collaboration, which is a key aspect of Sugar. 

Whisky:
This project does have a code of conduct that clearly makes use of attributes found in the Contributor Covenant's document, such as the pledge, standards, scope, and enforcement. That being said, that makes the Whisky project's code of conduct fairly similar to both Sugar and Go's respective documents, but one thing that sets the Whisky project's document apart is the clear outlining of escalating punishments. 
